---
layout: post
title: "I’m Back"
author: [potatowire]
categories: 
tags: 
banner: 
caption: 
filename: 
summary: "Here we go again"
---

I’m back, baby. 

Well, maybe. If you’ve been here a while, you know I start and stop a lot. I also have periodic identity crises. I can’t reliably make any promises about where my writing may go, but I am going to commit to posting every day again, because I tend to be an all-or-nothing sort of guy. 

I’m not sure what’s next, but that’s part of the fun. Right?

Before you go, please take a minute to filling out a quick poll. I’m trying to figure out what matters to you, dear reader. 

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeiJGU2ctaIXvSS5h9ziU7KKgwHJMLEyZs6WCnjsYKUHeNRiA/viewform?embedded=true" width="760" height="500" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading...</iframe>

*If the embed isn’t displaying correctly, please click [here][1].*

Before you go, for real this time, please consider signing up for [my email list][2]. I don’t currently send out any actual emails, so I figure only dedicated fans will sign up, and that’s what I’m looking for. I also have to admit I am not terribly comfortable describing anyone as a *fan*, but that just makes me okay with zero responses.

What I’d like to do, eventually, is form a community of likeminded folks, but in the meantime, please [send me an email][3] if you want help, advice, coaching, whatever. Someday (maybe inside of 18 months), when I’m legally allowed to market myself, I want to try consulting as a potential gig. Until then, you can have my help for free. Incidentally, these email exchanges will be with the real me, not the potatowire me, so there’s that too.

Welcome back. I hope we both stay here a while.

[1]:	https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeiJGU2ctaIXvSS5h9ziU7KKgwHJMLEyZs6WCnjsYKUHeNRiA/viewform?usp=sf_link
[2]:	https://with.thegra.in/newsletter
[3]:	mailto:help@potatowire.com