One of the reasons I was able to read [more than 80 books last year]() is that I listen to audiobooks while commuting, and I spend a lot of time commuting. I listen to everything at 2x speed.

This last bit may sound crazy, but hear me out. Many times in the past I have followed more podcasts than I reasonably had time to listen to. Far from being alone in this, my interest was always piqued when I heard someone say they listed to audio at increased speed. Each time this came up I would give this a try, and each time I tried anew, I would feel like the pace of the words was going to cause me to have a panic attack. Finally, about 8 months ago, I'd had enough frustration that I refused to accept failure.

2x speed was too fast, and so was 1.5x, but surely I could handle  1.2x. Yep, I could. Pretty quickly though this speed began to seem normal, so I ramped it up a bit[^1] more. Within a couple days I was up to 1.8x and then 2.0x. Sometimes it makes sense to to dial it down a bit, as I recently did when I started {{Last Lion}}[^2], when comprehension begins to wane, but this is rare and usually temporary. 

This new 2x lifestyle was great for feeling like I was accomplishing a lot during a commute otherwise wasted, but I discovered another, more important side effect. Anyone regular audiobook listener has probably had the experience of suddenly realizing they have no idea what's going on in their book. At some point the mind went off the rails on another train of thought. Well, after a few days of faster listening speeds, I suddenly realizes that this had stopped happening to me. In fact, my recall and comprehension was higher than ever.

I have a twofold theory about this. First, even if you consider yourself a slow reader, you probably read much faster than you think. You certainly read faster than the narrator of an audiobook who is taking pains to speak clearly and well. The upshot of this is that your brain is used to faster input and when it doesn't happen, it decides to use those spare cycles on refining your shopping list or planning an upcoming vacation.

Beyond the attentions piece, I think the act of having to listen harder causes the brain to engage more. I think this based on somewhat similar study related in Daniel [Kanehman's]() *[Thinking Fast and Slow]()[^2]. In this study, the experimenters gave two groups of students separate versions of the same test, with one group getting a copy that was harder to read. *[Turns out]()* this group performed better. The thought here is that when the mind has to work harder to read questions and potential answers, it breaks through its tendency to see what is expected.[^3]. I think this is want happens when you have to listen harder.

No matter what the underlying reason might be, I wouldn't care if it's only the placebo effect, increasing the speed has helped me do more with the time I do have. Even if you think I'm crazy, try ratcheting up the speed a bit, and I think you'll be glad you did. I'll save my thoughts on the topic of increasing reading speed for another day.

[^1]: [Marco Arment's]() [Smart Speed]() offers a nearly transparent way to 

[^2]: Past readers may recall I was having a tough time finishing this book. 2x speed to the rescue.