---
layout: post
title: "Wealthy and Wise"
author: [potatowire]
categories: 
tags: weekly
banner: 
caption:
published: false
---

In what accidentally became [a tradition](https://with.thegra.in/archive?search=weekly), I will again set out a goal for this week.

Learning [a lesson](https://with.thegra.in/cold-water), for once, I will work on just one thing: I will not snooze my alarm this week. It is, sadly, something I thought I'd [already](https://with.thegra.in/dont-snooze)[^1] fixed. Most of the <strike>conventional<\strike> internet wisdom on forming habits is that it takes only 21 days to form a habit. This is largely because the studies out there *appear* to bear this out, but this timeframe really only applies to easy habits. In reality, the time required to cement a new habit varies wildly based on complexity of the task, degree of difficulty, internal motivation, etc. 

For my part, I assume a habit is only formed when it has been a part of my life for 18 months.[^2] Which is an elaborate way of saying I'm not sure I've ever permanently set a habit. 

Back to snoozing my alarm. I thought I had this one beat, but in hindsight, I was winning during an easier time. A time when I was temporarily living apart from my family, between sets of military orders. When things returned to normal, I went back to the habit of a lifetime by snoozing my alarm nearly every day.

Now, however, the goal is one thing for one week. I can do that. I will never be perfect, but I will be a little [better](https://with.thegra.in/better).

[^1]: Apparently this was also during my perscriptive phase. In one of my various reboots, I shifted to more of a team-like tone, since I must've finally noticed I don't have everything figured out. We're all in this together.

[^2]:	This is the worst-case extreme in the studies I've seen.
