---
layout: post
title: "A New Commitment"
author: [potatowire]
categories: biography 
tags: Churchill
banner: 
caption: 
published: false
---

One of the most interesting things for me when reading a biography is when the individual is wrong. I have [previously noted]() that Winston Churchill was changeable, but he was changeable in the way an admitted, unapologetic egoist is changeable.

After WWI, the uniformed personnel of the Admiralty told their civilian superiors that surface ships had solved the [U-boat]() problem. Beyond tactical changes, they had a secret weapon.

> This was the asdic, “the name,” Churchill wrote, for “the system of groping for submarines below the surface by means of sound waves through the water which echoed back from any steel structure they met. From this echo the position of the submarine could be fixed with some accuracy.” It is a marvellous system and achievement.” It wasn’t, not then. Later versions, which Americans came to know as sonar, fulfilled the promise of the primitive device Churchill saw and would prove valuable antisub weapons, but during Churchill’s tenure as first lord the asdic was almost worthless.[^1]

As soon as hostilities began, it was clear German submarines were sill a factor. When the Germans invaded Poland, [Neville Chamberlain]() bowed to public outcry and [MP]() support[^2] and returned Churchill to the War Cabinet as First Lord of the Admiralty.

> [Churchill] has known from the beginning that if Britain loses the duel with Nazi submarines she cannot survive.[^2] The high priority he gives to converting trawlers into antisub vessels and his emphasis on destroyer production will contribute to the Admiralty’s eventual success. The difficulty is that all this is defensive, and he is comfortable only when carrying the war to the enemy. He overrates the asdic. Worse, he withdraws destroyers from convoys to form “hunting groups” or “attacking groups,” directing them to seek and destroy U-boats. 
This is “aggressive,” he argues; convoy duty, on the other hand, is “passive.” 
He minutes to Pound—who agrees—that “Nothing can be more important in the anti-submarine war than to try to obtain an independent flotilla which could work like a cavalry division.” 
He is dead wrong; weakening convoys to permit offensive sweeps fails on both counts—no U-boats are sunk, and their elusive commanders, seizing opportunities while the destroyers are looking for them elsewhere, penetrate convoys with alarming results. 
Yet Churchill will stick to his “hunt ’em down” strategy after he becomes prime minister. Not until 1942, when the effectiveness of the convoy strategy has been demonstrated beyond all doubt, does he accept it without reservation.

> The U-boat threat, they assured their civilian superiors, had been solved by surface ships in 1918, and, 
besides, they had a new secret weapon. 

The clarity with which he had heard its unmistakable “ping” derived from the fact that its target subs were far from the transmitter. 
The shorter the range, the weaker the ping, and if a U-boat approached within fifteen hundred yards—the lethal range for torpedoes—the asdic signal was lost completely. 
U-boat commanders could hear the ping, too, and they would quickly learn how to take evasive action and approach at a deadlier angle. 
These problems challenged the most experienced asdic operators, of which there were very few in 1939; in the opening phase of the war at sea the transmitter-receivers would be in the hands of civilians who had been rushed through a three-month training course and assigned a task they simply could not grasp. 
Finally, the asdic could only be operated underwater. Admiral Karl Dönitz, a heroic submariner in the last war and now Befehlshaber der U-boote, simply ordered his commanders to attack at night from the surface. 
In the Royal Navy the asdic would be discredited, and its return to favor, like Churchill’s, came slowly.

[^1]: http://a.co/g9IGp92

[^2]: Interestingly, once he joined Chamberlain's government, he was loyal to Chamberlain when many would have forgiven him for twisting the knife as support for Chamberlain waned. This was not Churchill's way. To Chamberlain's credit, 