---
layout: post
title: "Value"
author: [potatowire]
categories: 
tags: 
banner: 
caption:
---

As I was pulling out of my garage this morning, I had the general realization that money is the only area of my life that still pisses me off.

In general, I am content. Sometimes I *make* myself be content, but I am content. Money wise, I’m rarely content.

This has been made worse as I prepare to retire from active duty. This retirement could be in a couple years or it it could be in 10 years, but eventually I need another way to provide for my family. As I consider options, I am pretty sure I can’t work for someone else. I’m not an egomaniac, but I’ve been a boss too long.

I think I want to do a bunch of different things, but I really like the idea of starting a business. Wanting to start a business is a terrible reason to start a business, however. I’m pretty sure I only truly realized this a couple years ago when I read [this post][1] by Derek Sivers. As he explains,

> **I meet a lot of people who want to start a business.**
> 
> Some don’t have an idea yet. I don’t understand this. It’s like wanting to wear a bandage when you don’t have a wound.
> 
> Most have an **idea** but no customers. For them I always say, “Don’t start a business until people are asking you to.”
> 
> This is not meant to be discouraging. It just means you need to get the ingredients before you turn on the oven.
> 
> First you find real people whose problem you can solve. You listen deeply to find their dream scenario. You make sure they’re happy to pay you enough.

I listen to a lot of podcasts, and many of them tell the stories of successful entrepreneurs.[^1] All the good ones all begin with folks making money doing something already in their wheelhouse, before ever spinning it up into a real business. They’re already creating value when they decide it’s a business.

I need to find my value.

[^1]:	Let’s not even get into [_Survivorship Bias_][2] right now. All good internet nerds know the risk.

[1]:	https://sivers.org/asking
[2]:	https://xkcd.com/1827/