Last year I read finished more than 80 books. This is not because I sit around reading all the time. I work long hours, commute a long distance, and have four kids I like to spend my free time with. No, the reason I was able to read so much is that I made a concerted effort to read whenever possible and also to read better.

The first step to reading more is grab a book during the little bits of free time throughout the dayto watch less and read fewer things online. 

I'll be the first to admit the quantity of books read is unimportant. IAs I [discussed yesterday]() I'm trying to dig in and *learn* more, 



This is possible for a couple reasons. First of all, I purposefully set out last year with a goal of self-improvement[^1]. Secondly, I have spent some time learning to read faster.

Last January was a convenient time for self-analysis, because I was training and transitioning into the top job in my particular field[^2]. It also marked a point where it starts making sense to plan for whatever I do next. Spoiler alert: I still have no idea.

The second part of my effort is adjacent to pseudoscience and other quackery, but I promise there are no speed reading courses involved. I'm not going to dive to deep, but there are a few points worth highlighting. 

The first of these is the concept of sub-vocalizing. If you've read much recent Science Fiction, you may recognize this as the way technologically advanced humanity communicates with the computers in their head. For now, however, all it

[^1]: Coincidentally, it was one year ago that I made [my first post]() here, which was a manifesto of sorts.

[^2]: There are plenty of levels above my current job, but this is the best one, and any other movement upward is a really a new job altogether, and one I don't even want.