I love to read. I've loved to read for as long as I can remember. I love to learn. I've loved to learn for only a decade or so. Long after I was a full-time student. Since I came into a love of learning more recently, I've often considered going back to school. I've even taking some classes.

THe thing is, I think school is a waste of time for me at this point. In my mind, the only real product of schooling is not learning but credentialing. I am a prime example of that, having received an engineering degree (a [real]() engineering degree) without having learned much. At this point in my life, I need no credentials, but I need to learn.

There are countless ways to learn now. iTunes U, Lynda.com, Udemy have full courses. People share all sorts of hard-won knowledge on YouTube and elsewhere. But then there are books, my beloved books. 

Though we are continually told no one reads anymore, it's never been easier to find great books to read. I have my own list of books read [here]() on *With the Grain*, but I hope to soon add a page with my own recommendations, in addition to a compilation of the other lists I've found valuable. 

For the last year and a half I've been reading a lot, but I'm not convinced I've been learning a lot. That's why I'm here. I'm going to document what I'm learning real-time, in addition to going back and consolidating a lot of the knowledge I've been accreting less mindfully. In doing so, I'll talk more about some of the mechanics and some good resources I wish I'd know about decades ago. 

At least some of you are now saying, "I don't have time to read," or "it must be nice," but I'm going to yell at you about that sometime later. Start tonight with a little [fiction before bed]().